# PyCity Schools Analysis

- This jupyter notebook produces a thorough analysis of two csv files containing data pertinent to a 15 school school district and their students. The script first loads in the csv data and merges them together into a single dataframe, it merges them based on the common column "school_name". Then the notebook creates and prints several dataframes from the data that can provide important insights in the school district. This notebook contains 9 sections, each one revealing different information from the data. There is the District Summary, School Summary, Best Schools by Percentage Passing, Worst Schools by Percentage Passing, Math Scores broken up by grade, Reading Scores broken up by grade, Scores by School Spending, Scores by School Size, and Scores by School Type.
- One important insight for example is that Large schools have a student pass rate far below that of medium or small schools. This might indicate to the school supervisory board to try to reduce school sizes, or it might indicate to a parent to enroll their child in a smaller school if given the choice. This insight can be seen in the "Scores by Size" section of the notebook.
- Another important insight is that the schools with the higher per student spending had a lower student passing rate on average. This will seem counter intuitive. Personally, I interpret this data to indicate that student spending is unrelated to student success, however others may interpret this data differently. One could argue that spending more on students hinders their success, and this data would agree with them, but interpretation is a matter of opinion and further investigation should be done to clarify the relationship between student spending and student success. These conclusions are drawn from the data frame in the Scores by School Spending data frame.
---
